add "Nim Community Survey 2020 Results" post (#255)
nim-lang/website: jekyll/_posts/2021-01-19-community-survey-results-2020.md

---
title: "Nim Community Survey 2020 Results"
author: The Nim Team
---

> Nim community survey 2020 has been open for one month, and we have received 769 responses, which we think it is large enough sample to draw the conclusions about our users and their habits.

Reviewer: This reads wrong.

Also, would it be worth it to compare the response rate to our previous surveys?

Author: It is lower than last year, but last year had the survey open for 50 days, this year 30. It is comparable to 2018.
(I didn't want to write that in the article)

What reads wrong? How to improve it?

Reviewer: > which we think it is large enough sample

This just reads to me like there is a better way to say it.

Before we go into details, we would like to thank all the people who took the time to respond.
We really appreciate the feedback!

The goal of this survey was primarily to determine how our community is using Nim, in order to better understand how we should be improving it.

## Do you use Nim?

Based on the answer to this question, the respondents were divided in two groups and they've received separate set of questions.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/01.png" alt="Do you use Nim?" style="width:100%"/>

Approximately 3/4 of the respondents use Nim (31% frequently, 41% occasionally), while the remaining 1/4 is divided between people who never used Nim (16%) and people who stopped using Nim (11%).

Of those people who *don't* use Nim, the most frequent reasons are: "Nim seems immature, not ready for production" (36%), "Nim doesn't have libraries I need" (33%), "Nim seems too risky for production" (25%), and "Nim doesn't have enough learning materials" (24%).

> For people who have used Nim previously but stopped the most frequent reasons were (free-form question): lack of libraries (small and not mature ecosystem), incomplete documentation, bad editor support, compiler crashes, coworkers don't use it, etc.

Reviewer: Maybe a few words on how this compares to the previous year?

Author: It is similar to previous year(s). It is very hard to exactly compare since it is a free-form question.

An average Nim user would be a software developer from Europe.

Besides Europe (more than half of our users), our users mostly come from North America and Asia.
Almost half of our users are software developers (47%), and the next largest group are students (17%).

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/05.png" alt="In what age group are you?" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/06.png" alt="How many years of programming experience do you have?" style="width:100%"/>

We have users from all age groups and with programming experience varying between 1 and 40 years, proving that Nim can be used both by beginners and the experienced veteran programmers.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/07.png" alt="What are the technical aspects or features of Nim you like the most?" style="width:100%"/>

Things that people like about Nim the most are: performance/speed (86%), ease of use (76%), syntax (73%) and self-contained binaries (63%).

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/08.png" alt="What editor(s) do you use when writing Nim?" style="width:100%"/>

> The most used editor, expectedly, is VS Code, which is used by 62% of Nim users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's no surprise that the most used editor is VS Code, with 62% of Nim users choosing it in the survey.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed.

In the second place is Vim/Neovim (37% combined), followed by Sublime Text and Emacs (10% each).

## Nim versions

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/09.png" alt="Which version(s) of Nim do you use?" style="width:100%"/>

We're glad to see that the large majority of users are using the latest stable version (1.4.x).

We can partially attribute this to the mostly painless upgrade process:

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/10.png" alt="Has upgrading to a new version of the Nim compiler broken your code? How much work did it take to fix it?" style="width:100%"/>

## Using Nim

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/11.png" alt="Roughly, what percentage of the programming work you do is in Nim?" style="width:100%"/>

The situation is slightly better than in 2019, but far from what we would like to see.

> We hope the we'll see even larger improvements in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope that we'll see even larger improvements in the future.
```

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/37.png" alt="What types of software are you developing using Nim?" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/42.png" alt="What types of software are you developing using Nim?" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/39.png" alt="What types of software are you developing using Nim?" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/38.png" alt="What types of software are you developing using Nim?" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/40.png" alt="What types of software are you developing using Nim?" style="width:100%"/>

Nim is mostly used for writing command-line programs and libraries, followed by automation/scripts, GUI, web services and data processing.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/13.png" alt="What platforms are you targeting?" style="width:100%"/>

The large majority of Nim users are targeting Linux, followed by Windows and macOS.

> Compared to 2019, we see an increase of JavaScript, Android, and iOS.

Reviewer: nice!

And there are almost three times more people who haven't contributed to Nim so far but plan to do that in the future.
We're looking forward to this :)

The most frequent reasons for not contributing (yet) are: lack of time and lack of skill/experience.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/19a.png" alt="Did you make any donations to Nim?" style="width:100%"/>

In the past we haven't stressed enough the importance of the [community donations](https://nim-lang.org/donate.html), which is reflected in this graph: only 10% of our users have made a donation in the past.
We are happy to see that 2/3 of our users plan to do it in the future, which will help us to have more manpower to fix the most important bugs more promptly and work on some exciting new features.

## Nim tools

We've asked you how satisfied you are with the Nim tooling:

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/29.png" alt="What is your experience with the following tools? [nimble]" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/30.png" alt="What is your experience with the following tools? [choosenim]" style="width:100%"/>

> Most of our users use Nimble package manager and they are very satisfied by it.

Reviewer 2: I'm curious how many who use nim personally are `very satisfied` because I don't see how you can use Nimble for professional projects that require version pinning at the moment so that builds are somewhat reproducible.

Reviewer: What do you consider "use nim personally"? The survey asks people what their thoughts are on Nimble and there is an option to state "I haven't used it". It's unlikely someone would use Nimble if they aren't personally using Nim.

I know this might go against your personal experience, but most Nim users aren't yet writing big enough applications for lock files to matter. In addition, Nimble does support version pinning already, I use it all the time for my applications, it's not as good as having Nimble generate the pinned versions for you but it works well enough.

It's annoying to see the loud voices saying that Nimble sucks when the survey has pretty consistently shown that practically all of the community is satisfied with it. We need to invest development time into it to keep it that way though, it's been a while since its seen significant development put into it.

A smaller amount of users picked Choosenim as their way of installing and updating Nim versions, but those who did are quite satisfied with what it has to offer.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/34.png" alt="What is your experience with the following tools? [nim doc]" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/33.png" alt="What is your experience with the following tools? [nimpretty]" style="width:100%"/>
<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/32.png" alt="What is your experience with the following tools? [nimsuggest]" style="width:100%"/>

> Nim doc is generally liked by those who use it, as is Nimpretty.

Reviewer 2: Who are the users of both?

Author: Sorry, we don't have names, the survey was anonymous. :P

## Nim in 2021 and beyond

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/24.png" alt="What should be our priorities in improving Nim, that would bring the largest quality-of-life improvements? [fixing compiler bugs]" style="width:100%"/>

According to the votes, fixing compiler bugs should be our first priority; 55% of our users find it very important, with only 18% of votes for ok or low priority.
We will continue to work on it, and we appreciate any community effort on this: we already have several individuals continuously helping us with fixing compiler bugs (thank you!), and we'd benefit from more.

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/news/images/survey2020/22.png" alt="What should be our priorities in improving Nim, that would bring the largest quality-of-life improvements? [improve tooling]" style="width:100%"/>

Improving the tooling is very high on a priority list for our users (higher than in 2019), and especially for those users who use Nim professionally.

> We're happy to announce that, thanks to our partnership with [Status](https://status.im), improving the developer tooling is [one of the goals for 2021](https://github.com/nim-lang/RFCs/issues/300).

Reviewer 2: This should be detailed. I hope people don't assume that I will be tackling developer tooling.

Author: From what I've heard, Status will employ somebody (not you) to work on VS Code extension as their full-time job.
